---
title: Privacera Discovery Design
---

# Privacera Discovery Design

Privacera Discovery crawls through various data assets such as databases and files, collectively referred to as data
sources. It scans these sources to identify sensitive information like credit card numbers, social security numbers, and
other personal, restricted, or confidential information.

Privacera Discovery classifies or labels this information to create a comprehensive catalog of your sensitive data. You
can review these classifications to accept, reject, or refine them using rules, dictionaries, models, and patterns.

## Key Features

Privacera Discovery offers multiple features and benefits to help you manage your sensitive data. Here are some of the
key features:

### Reporting

Privacera Discovery offers a variety of reports to aggregate, summarize, and drill down into the classification results
across the entire collection of data assets.

### Reviewing Classifications

You can review and update the classifications generated by the scanners. This allows you to fine-tune the results and
ensure the accuracy of the detected sensitive information.

### Compliance Workflows

Privacera Discovery provides workflows to help you comply with regulations like GDPR, CCPA, and HIPAA. You can use these
workflows to redact, mask, or encrypt sensitive data to protect user privacy, delete or prune data to comply with
consent requests, alert on unauthorized sensitive data access or storage, and more.

### Data Zones

Grouping data sources into administrative _data zones_ allows for easier maintenance and control. Ownership and
management of these zones can be delegated to specific organizational groups within your enterprise.

