---
title: About Apache Ranger Plugin
---

# About Apache Ranger Plugin

The Apache Ranger Plugin is a lightweight Java library embedded within the compute environment of the data source. It
enforces security policies in real-time and provides centralized auditing capabilities.

**Key Features**:

- **Real-Time Policy Enforcement**: The plugins enforce policies as data access requests are made, ensuring immediate
  and up-to-date protection.
- **Embedded Integration**: Being embedded within the data source's compute environment, these plugins offer seamless
  integration and minimal performance overhead.
- **Centralized Auditing**: Audit logs generated by the plugins are sent to a central audit service, enabling
  comprehensive monitoring and compliance reporting.
- **Versatility**: This mechanism is versatile and supports various data sources and platforms, enhancing its
  applicability across different environments.

**How It Is Done**:

- **Plugin Deployment**: Lightweight Java plugins are deployed within the compute environment of the data source.
- **Policy Retrieval**: These plugins retrieve security policies from the Privacera platform or a Ranger admin service.
- **Real-Time Enforcement**: As data access requests are made, the plugins enforce the relevant policies in real-time.
- **Auditing**: The plugins generate audit logs for each access request, which are sent to a central audit service for
  monitoring and reporting purposes.
- **Dynamic Updates**: Policies can be updated dynamically without downtime, as the plugins continuously check for
  policy updates.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    box Java Process
      participant DataSourceCompute
      participant RangerPlugin
    end
    box Privacera Platform    
      participant PolicyManager
      participant CentralAuditService
    end
    Note right of RangerPlugin: Periodically check<br> for policy updates
    RangerPlugin->>PolicyManager: Retrieve updated policies
    PolicyManager-->>RangerPlugin: Updated policies retrieved
    User->>DataSourceCompute: Data access request
    DataSourceCompute->>RangerPlugin: Process access request
    RangerPlugin-->>RangerPlugin: Authorize request
    RangerPlugin-->> DataSourceCompute: Allow/Deny access
    DataSourceCompute-->>User: Provide access to data<br> (if authorized)
    RangerPlugin-->>CentralAuditService: Send audit log

```

<div class="grid cards" markdown>
-   :material-page-previous: Prev topic: [Integration Types](index.md)
-   :material-page-next: Next topic: [About Privacera PolicySync](privacera_policysync.md)
</div>
